(dramatic music)
(clippers buzzing)
(machine whirring)
- I'm gonna be drinking, that's a cool can.
- Drinking still water spaced beer.
- Oh shit, that's a cool can.
- Which is, their beer's pretty good.
It's a lower alcohol.
- Where they are, where they're from?
- 3.8%, which is pretty a low gravity IPA,
pretty low for an IPA.
Where they out of though?
I think it's DC, but they're shit's pretty good.
- It says artisanal right on the can.
- Uh-huh.
- I'm crafting it. - I know that some serious shit.
- Everything about this was crafted.
- Especially that design, mmm.
Very hypnotic.
- Yeah, it's a good beer.
- Let's check it out.
- Good podcasting beer.
- Where'd you get it?
- At that beer distributor by where the BBT used to be.
- Gotcha.
Gotcha.
- Which is closed now, which is weird.
- Wait, it's closed?
- The BBT?
- Oh yeah, it's for sale.
Well, you can rent it now.
And they kept the kitchen and the bar.
And they've tried turning it into a bonus,
like, hey, make your own pierogies.
It's weird to slip.
- Let's do loft with built in bar.
- Yeah.
Hopefully they kept the bathroom exactly the same.
- Anyone wants to be 12?
- Yeah.
- Natural energy.
- That could be 12.
- Turkey up.
- Wait, these chubble?
- No, let them dissolve.
(laughing)
- Are you serious?
- Shoot the shit out of it.
- It's supposed to let it dissolve, it's a lozenge.
It's supposed to absorb in your mouth.
Like, apparently that's how you get better B12.
It gets absorbed in your mouth tissue.
- So, I'm doing a peachy.
- Yeah, it's peach flavor.
- Suitable for vegetarians and vegans.
- All right, do we want to talk about a super booth?
Or should we wait for these lozenges to finish?
(laughing)
- I'm trying to get my mind sharp,
so I'm not all stupid like last time.
- How long does it take to kick in?
- I'm not gonna get the speed of this.
- You should like, no, this is like speed you up.
All of a sudden, like I notice I can think more clearly.
- Mm, mm.
- It like lifts the blame fog, yeah.
(laughing)
And then next thing I know, it's three days later
and I haven't slept.
(laughing)
- Super booth.
Super booth.
- Yeah.
- So many exciting things.
- There are, how do we want to tackle
going through this order?
Was there anything anybody absolutely hated?
I feel like getting it out of our system,
what are the things that we hated?
- I think there's two big things right off the bat
that we can probably bitch about.
Number one, I can see it in Nick's eyes.
(laughing)
- The Beringer.
- Oh yeah.
- Yeah, that's one of them.
- For sure.
- Yeah.
- Clones, the Clone Wars.
And it's not just a few clones.
There's all of them.
That is a tremendous lineup of them.
- It's a clone army.
- It is.
- Which like, you gotta kind of respect it
in some way they're just going for it, you know?
It's like no balls about it, that's like a pro one,
but it's like, I don't get it.
I don't get why they would, I don't know.
They're gonna be cheap.
If that 808's gonna be like a hundred bucks.
- Yeah.
- That would be crazy.
- Not legal is probably the right word for this, but like.
- That's the cool.
- Yes.
- How did somebody go, this is a great idea.
Let's just fucking do this.
'Cause it's not like people aren't gonna notice.
- I don't even think we can blame them, dude.
People have been begging for this shit for years.
- It's true.
- On every forum for years now, you always see,
well why can't Beringer just make a NATO away?
You know, while everyone's been waiting for like,
Roland to reproduce this stuff.
So like, we, as a people, have finally got
what we've asked for, I guess.
- But that doesn't like, people asking you to do something
doesn't get you out of like ethical quandaries.
- It's not like someone goes,
there's a market there.
- Like someone can ask for a million things.
The whole thing. - 20 bucks is 20 bucks, Dave.
- Yeah.
Let's go say I'm gonna do a change my life
based on what you're saying right now.
- Dave.
(laughing)
Maybe I've been doing things the wrong way.
- There's the pro one, the 808.
- Yeah.
- The 101, the MM101 or something like that.
- I mean, it's full on, that knockoff even has the handle for.
- Oh yeah, the key grip.
- The key grip.
- I mean, that's pretty a detailed clone.
- Yeah.
- Oh, it looks, yeah, very similar to one.
I do, when I was scrolling through
like the Super booth announcements,
I didn't realize what I was looking at at first.
I thought it was a 101.
And I was like, "Wait a minute, I did a double take."
And I was like, "What the hell is this?"
- But they added some things,
like they added like a triangle waveform,
which it doesn't have, like they picked some things
out of all of them that they kind of modified,
which is kind of weird.
- All right.
And this was like a couple weeks after they had released,
what were the, there was a series of Yurrat clones.
- Yeah.
It's meant to be like the Roland 500 series.
- All right, right, right.
- As a barringer knockoff.
- But I mean, Roland is doing their own 500 series.
- So, which is powered by Maleco, actually.
He's, Josh has been the one like spearheading
that whole project and now a barringer just kind of came out
and gave him a dirty Sanchez.
(laughing)
- But they're even like cloning the updates
that people made, like they have three filters
from the core art bodicy.
Like exactly the way that the core one did it.
Like, it's kind of interesting what they're picking
and they have the drive circuit
from the new core guard bodicy
that wasn't on the original.
- The built-in compressor on the 808,
like the TR8 had things like that.
Yeah.
- Yeah.
- Every video blew my mind, dude.
Like you see all these super booth videos,
they're in the con, you know what I mean?
Like they're in a busy hallway, lots of noise,
people everywhere, all these booths set up
and then you cut to the barringer video
and it's just the dude.
- Oh, yeah.
- And a camera guy in a completely dead silent room.
God knows where, it's like they found a closet somewhere
where they could set up this super secret demo
and they're like whispering, like cutting lines.
- Yeah, check this out.
- This is the real deal shit, man.
We got the clone.
- Right off the boat.
- But they knew they were being recorded, right?
Like it wasn't the one that sounded like,
but it's like they had a hide
from the rest of the convention.
Like they thought they were gonna get stabbed
or something, so like super secret.
Like it was just shady as hell all around.
But Sonic State, they got in, man.
They got behind the lines and they got video
like everything.
- Do you think that conversations are,
hey man, you're not wearing a wire, are you?
- I know, I know, fine.
- They weren't answering questions either.
Like Nick, right from Sonic State
was the one interviewing the baronger guys first.
Like he got in there with an 808.
He was like asking pretty direct questions
and he just kept being like, yes, 808.
Like that was his answer.
Like he was just like dodging every question
and every detail, couldn't give price,
couldn't give like no details, but it was strange.
- Even one of the videos, there's no audio.
He's just holding it and talking to the guy
and he won't play it.
- Yep, we came up with a bunch of prototypes
that look like they're functional just in time
for Superboos so that we could make this announcement
and get the hype train rolling in our secret
Superbooth closet.
- And some of it sounded pretty prototype too.
Like that one at one.
- I did not like it.
- Never owned one, but it didn't sound like that
when I used one.
The 808 was like, you know, the TR8,
you can complain about it.
I mean like, oh, it doesn't sound like 808,
which I've done before.
That thing sounds amazingly close to an 808
compared to the DR 808 that they had,
which did not to me.
I don't know.
Be curious to see what the prices are
on some of the shit and if people like,
you really want that?
You're gonna want that over like the TR8s or something?
You know, that'd be my question.
- Probably have to be like half the price.
- Yeah.
- People even consider it, in my opinion, I don't know.
But who knows?
- But I've read good reviews about the Moog clone thing
that they made.
- It was apparently pretty good- sounded.
Like I couldn't tell a damn difference.
It sounded like a freaking Model D.
- I was surprised how much the 101 didn't sound like a 101.
- Yeah.
- You know, because I figured that would be
one of the easiest things to clone, you know?
But like that demo, yeah, just did not sound good
or like a 101.
It was like, I rate that has to be like 100 bucks at best.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah.
- You can consider something like that.
Aside from Beringer, the other thing that I kind of,
grinded my gears was that endorphins.
- Oh, black and war.
- Black and war, yeah.
- It sounded like garbage.
I'm glad I'm not the only one,
'cause I swear, dude, people weren't hearing the same demo
that I was, 'cause the threads concerning it were all like,
oh my God, it's so fat.
It's so big sounding.
I'm just like, I'm not hearing that.
I'm really not, like the kick sounded decent at best.
Everything else sounded very lo-fi-
- Thin.
- No-fi, thin.
It sounded like an LXR, but not even as good as an LXR.
- No, no.
- You know what I mean?
LXR has that like, ali-est sound to it.
It's kind of bit crunchy.
That's nice, that's part of the character of that machine.
But to get something that's being advertised is like,
dark wave and dark techno and all this shit
and then like hearing that, I'm like,
I'm not hearing that.
I'd listen to the demo twice, 'cause like,
did I just miss something the first time through?
And the second time I was like,
I'm not feeling that.
I'm not, I would not spend the money on that.
You know, I don't know.
But then on the other side of the coin,
I listened to the demo of the Erika sense
and their drum modules.
And they also specifically, you know,
are catering to a specific genre, I guess you could say.
You know what I mean?
In every video, they said, you know, industrial techno.
And I'm like, okay, when you drop that fucking name,
I'm gonna have a specific sound and standard
that it gotta meet.
And I listened to that video and I said, fuck yeah.
I said, that's nailing it, you know what I mean?
Like these guys are nailing it.
And it's not just the drum since like they got the whole,
the whole lineup, the whole system mapped out there.
They had the drum sampler, they revealed.
- That looked really cool. - Yeah.
Which I think is two sampler in one.
He says basically like an evolved expansion
of the Pico drum technology.
You can adjust start and stop,
start and end points of the samples.
- And it has a screen, right?
- Yes.
Yeah, that's a nice addition.
You can see the waveform and all that.
That is pretty cool.
The bass line module, which is,
I think it had three different modes of like bass-osque.
Plus it has the acid box filter.
So it's like pretty acidic, three or three-ish.
Which is kind of cool.
The entire lineup of like a 909 inspired system,
kick, tom, symbol, hat, saw that jazz snare.
And then they had the dual channel distortion.
- Yeah.
- Which looks pretty killer.
Three different modes on there.
- Even by itself, it seemed like a great module.
- Yeah.
- That was the one where everything was coming through
and he turned that on and just,
everything just changed.
- Yeah.
- It sounded fantastic.
- Yeah, I guess you could run that in parallel
or series or stereo if you wanted,
you know, it's pretty compact and seemed,
sounded great and it's pretty versatile
for a distortion module.
And then the mixer itself also has a built-in compressor.
It's seven channel mixer, like real compact
and it's got onboard compressor.
So you could further slam and distort, I guess,
if you wanted to take it in that direction.
And then the two channel effects.
It looked like similar to the dual channel distortion,
you know what I mean?
You've run it the same way in parallel or series
or whatever and it's got, I guess,
a selection of the algorithms from the black DSP.
- Oh, nice.
- Yeah.
So it's kind of like a,
like it would be a good accompaniment to the mixer,
you know what I mean?
- Yeah.
- So it's cool, send them returns through that thing.
- Yeah, it's cool 'cause they've always had, you know,
we've always seen them at knob con, like playing live,
techno stuff on their modular.
So it was cool to see them kind of drive that idea
a little further, you know?
- Yeah, not just talk about their product
but show it in action, you know?
- Yeah. - Which is pretty cool.
- We kind of walked away from things,
things that looked like shit a little early.
- Let's circle back.
- So I had another one.
- Let's go back, see if I don't know how.
- The Teenage Engineering OPZ.
- What does it do again?
- It is apparently nothing but a hardware sequencer
for an iPhone app.
- I totally missed that, I didn't even see that.
- That's the gray one, right?
- It's the gray one. - No screen, no screen,
and it's got, and you, it doesn't do anything until,
it's is a beta, and this is them based on this video
and I'm talking about it,
but it only works with this iPhone app.
And like, it seemed like it's integrated pretty well,
like they pressed a little button,
and then the screen on the iPhone app,
like said like filter sweep,
and there was some sort of traffic indication.
It was cute, and they were emphasizing
that it was a sequencer, I'm like,
"Why would you need this dedicated thing
"to sequence a fucking app?"
It just seemed like a huge fucking misfire
compared to like the OP1, which,
- If you don't understand, it's usefulness Dave.
- Yeah, then it's obviously not for you.
- It's above me. - Yeah.
- Like most things are.
- You just don't get it.
- Yeah, no, I'm wallowing in the dirt.
I was blown away, I was like,
I mean, they've made other interesting things.
This just seems insanely fucking stupid.
Like the whole thing could just be surfaced in the app
and then you don't have to spend,
but I'm sure it's going to be a lot of money.
'Cause there's shit's not,
except for the Baccot operators,
shit's not cheap. - No.
- They've been working on it for years too.
- I remember like every name everyone's hoping
they're gonna be some word about it.
- Yeah, this is at least three or four years.
- Wow.
- Yeah, if that's the result of it, that's shocking.
- Yeah, I thought it was like a video
sent or something, shit like that.
- That's something else that I think they've still
haven't announced that they've been working on forever.
It's the video thing that's been rumored forever.
- I had the OP1, 48 hours.
- Did you really? - Yeah, 48 hours.
And I was like, nope, right back on eBay.
- So what didn't you like about the OP1?
- The sync stuff, like it wouldn't sync
unless you got the fancy sync box
that you couldn't buy at all.
So I was immediately like, all right,
like can't do anything with it.
I don't know why I got it in the first place.
But then I tried it and was like,
let's see what I can get out of it and didn't get.
I don't know, it just seemed like I was fighting
through this novel interface to try to make music.
Instead of like, oh, this cool little video game
helps me make a song or something like that.
It was, I don't know, it's not what I'm trying to do.
I just stumbled upon one of my other notes
while we're talking about stuff to shit on.
- Yes.
- The news EDSP.
- So wait, is that actually gonna be qualified
as a news EDSP or is it just a new fucking panel?
- Nope.
- What's different about it?
- It's considered Mark II.
What's different about it?
More headroom for the feedback path.
- Are you fucking kidding?
- No.
(laughing)
- It's a very ugly panel.
- I mean, I get it they're going with,
they've got some sort of idea
that that's their new aesthetic and it looks like shit.
Okay fine, you got a new panel.
- Oh wow, that looks bad.
That looks like shit.
They've really jumped the shark.
- You look at it and it's the exact same parameters.
It's the exact same novel.
- It's the exact same model,
but they said they've redone the hardware behind it
and they said it's a little better quality
and more, I think it's 10 decibels less
before it like clips out on the feedback channels.
So if you had a problem, turning the knob,
turning the game down, problem solved now.
- Yeah.
- Were they gonna do the mini though?
That was the thing, right?
- They've never confirmed that.
Everyone has been wanting one forever
and that's what everyone thought this meant.
- Yeah.
- It was right before Super Booth, they announced
that ZDSP is now end of life, this version.
And everyone was like, oh sweet,
can't wait to see what they announced at Super Booth
and then that's what they dropped on us.
- Nah, like us already owning one.
It has a place in our system,
but if you're building a system
and you want a DSP effects module,
what are you gonna pick at that point?
Are you gonna get the new ugly ZDSP
or are you gonna get the black hole DSP2
or the couple Pico DSPs?
- Yeah, like there's other options now, you know?
- That new aesthetic just looks bad.
- It looks like a pickle.
(laughing)
- Noise engineering, the memetic digitalis.
- Yeah.
- Yes.
- Now available and shipping.
- I've got one one pre-order.
There's not shipped yet.
- Do we wanna explain to our listeners what it is?
- It looks like a smaller voltage block to me,
like something where you can do parameter locky
kind of recording, but you can also step through
any of those steps on like this little four by four grid
you get, edit those notes, but also do
randomization of any pitch on the scale
or randomization within one octave,
which is a pretty cool feature.
- That is cool.
- They said they built it mainly just for live use,
like it was multiple years of like,
we wanna build a little live sequencer
and I was like, cool, that's kind of what I'm looking for.
A lot of quick ability to record pitch sequence
and CV to send to stuff.
So, hoping it can fill the bill there.
But it's again, there's no way to get sequences back out,
which is fine.
And it's like 16 banks of four CVs that are pitched.
That's kind of what you have to work with.
- I did see you have like an undo function on there,
which is cool though.
- Yeah, there's no way to--
- There's no way to--
- Miles patterns out, but like if you have a pattern set
and you're tweaking it live and you wanna go right back
to where you were, that's pretty cool.
- Yeah, and you can dupe 'em pretty easy in there too,
which is nice.
Seems you can make variations pretty quick.
- Did I also see something about them doing reason plugins?
What?
- How did that come about?
They want to know?
- That was another surprise where it looks like
they're doing sound generating reason extensions,
like variations of the little calic
and the similar engines that do certain parts.
I'm sure it's using some of the exact same code
because they probably had the ability to port it over,
but I didn't dig in much further than that.
So I don't have reason.
- So--
- It's the same here.
- That's kind of where my interest stops,
but that looked cool.
It sounded good when I heard the samples,
but it's nice to see that they would kind of
contribute something like that.
- And I didn't even realize that kind of contribution
was still an active thing with reason.
'Cause I don't follow it at all.
I don't know what's going on with it.
- Yeah, reason now, not only do they have the,
like third party rack stuff that you can buy separately
and some are free, you know?
They also have VST support type stuff now.
So they've really opened it up over the last couple years
compared to what it was.
- It's about time.
You know, and so what they're always been asking for
forever with reason.
Like, so yeah, that's kind of cool.
It's a type of thing that I would expect to see
in like reactor.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Like noise engineering reactor block or something.
- I've seen it in reason, like that's pretty cool.
It tempts me to want to get back in a reason, honestly.
You know what I mean?
Like, that sounds cool.
- Well, speaking about programming then,
there was that weird core prologue programmer board.
- Oh yeah, what's up with that?
- So apparently it was only available at Superbooth.
It was like an experiment.
And it's not gonna be readily available.
And it's just one single processor.
But it has all of the audio in and out
and CV capability of just like one of the processors
from the prologue.
And the idea is that somebody who was interested in
writing code, you could go up to Superbooth
and get one of these.
All the code is in C.
So it's pretty low level stuff as far as like programming.
But it was enough for you to write and see that, you know,
your idea would work on one of these single processor.
And you're basically just confirming that your code
would work on one of the however many the prologue has.
And yeah, it was just a way to start experimenting
with programming for it.
- Well, it'd be really cool if they'd put like a graphical
front end on it.
You could do like, no modular style, make like a single voice
and like design patches or something.
- Yeah, that would be awesome.
That would be interesting.
(dramatic music)
- Do we wanna talk about that now?
- Yeah, let's talk a little bit about it.
We just were, Scott was there at Superbooth
from Industrial Music Electronics
and AKA The Harvest Man,
I see Will Forever Be in Our Hearts.
- Yeah.
- And it was like a 45 minute video.
I'm just talking about like piston, Honda Mark III.
- Wait, was that from Superbooth?
Or was that the release party that was before Superbooth?
- Oh fuck, that was the release party before it.
- Was it?
- Yeah, and I think it was in Portland.
- Oh, my bad.
- But it was like a day, like two days before Superbooth.
So I think it counts.
- It kinda all blurred together in my head, but yeah.
Absolutely, I think you're right.
Well, regardless, let's lump it in
with Superbooth announcements.
I think that's, 'cause yeah, it's shipping now.
It's out, like as of this weekend,
like you can buy the piston Mark III.
I haven't pre-ordered one,
but it's definitely on my like to get list
into very near future.
And I was just playing a Nick how it doesn't have
the LFO mode anymore, but it has two oscillators.
And we were just saying it would be cool
if you could have had like the second oscillator
in LFO mode or--
- I was gonna say, does it go down to LFO rates?
- I don't think it does.
And I was reading online, like,
I can't remember if you mentioned in the video,
but something about like the high fidelity-ness of it
prevented him to be able to do that.
Like I guess you couldn't have both.
Like being able to go into LFO mode,
I guess kind of jacked up the quality a bit.
In fact, it's not there anymore,
like it is on the Mark II.
- Right, right.
- But there are a lot of more interesting features
that you put in there.
Like the presets saving, the preset morphing.
- The preset morphing is, I got a little jealous
'cause that's something I really wish the graphic VCO had.
And it doesn't, and I hope--
- Not yet, at least.
- I assume that's gonna be there eventually,
but I have to, I was like,
"Ah, that has to write out the gate."
Yeah, it would just--
- Apparently you can tweak,
like exactly what you want it to randomize,
and you can have like per gate triggered randomization
and unison mode on both oscillators,
where you can have like,
I guess it's up to four copies of like, to detune.
- Oh, absolutely.
- So you can kind of get into like 352 territory
where you're kind of making a cloud at that point,
you know what I mean, of the waveforms,
which is something I like a lot of the 352.
So it'll be cool to be able to get into that type of stuff.
And the weirdo piston realm, you know.
Still has the processing mode, which is pretty cool.
Just seeing the capabilities of the piston mark three
makes me even more excited for the BFF at this point.
You know what I mean?
'Cause I'm sure it's gonna be similar,
it's gonna be a synth designed around the piston basically.
You know what I mean?
- That's so dope for, yeah.
- Paul's gonna hate me.
That's a little bit 352.
- Wait, what did he call you?
It's like a shithead or something?
- Who was it?
- I forget. - Oh, what the fuck was that?
- But I felt very honored to be called a name from Paul.
- Paul, if you're listening.
What did you call it right?
- Was it a dunderhead or something like that?
- Yeah, it was not.
- It was something like old time.
- It was not a recent insult.
What else was there on everyone's lists?
- The XAOC thing, do you know they want you
to pronounce that as chaos and that kind of bugs.
- Really?
- I know, right?
- I pronounce it ZAOC.
- Yeah, like ZAOC.
- ZAOC.
- Nio before ZAOC.
- See, you think that's a real bummer
'cause I'm really excited about the Zadar
which I was already a little on the fence about calling it that.
They hear them so so they call this chaos.
- ZAOC.
- I'm not calling it that.
But the Zadar is, that looks awesome.
- Zadar looks, yeah, looks fucking dope.
- So I was really fired up for it
because I'm finally at long last getting rid of my double
andor.
(gasps)
Yeah, gasps.
With the paint noise chip.
So I've been on the lookout for like another digital envelope
generator and this one looks kind of bonkers.
So it's a four channel, 200 different digital envelopes.
And then there's tons of ways like morph those,
you can flip it.
- You can like bend them right?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- That's real appealing.
- Yeah, I remember them saying that you can't write your own,
like you can with the Omni mod.
But it looks like there's enough flexibility there where,
- You will not miss being able to draw it in.
- Right, right, yeah.
- And it was all kinds of different stuff.
It wasn't, I mean, it had like your basic ADSR, you know,
linear, like it went from that to sort of like noise.
And the fact that it's four channel
actually makes it even more appealing.
- Yeah.
- With assignable CV inputs,
you can pick which parameter you want it to affect
when just pretty cool.
- I think it kind of fills a gap.
I still think that there's like a gap with envelopes.
- Absolutely.
- Absolutely modular.
Overall, it's just people really haven't taken it to
any interesting levels.
- I mean, especially like with digital envelopes.
I mean, when I was, when I was like,
okay, I'm gonna get rid of the double hand
or what else is out there.
And it was a handful of things.
- Yeah, it was nothing.
- Now envelopes.
- Envelopes.
- Fuckin' millions.
- Diamond doesn't.
- Yeah, yeah.
- I think it would make a nice substitute for those
who didn't want to get involved with the Omnimod mess also.
- Yeah.
- Personally, I still would like an Omnimod,
but I just don't.
I don't trust it.
This looks like it does exactly what I was going to use
an Omnimod for.
It began with, you know what I mean?
Like, I don't give a shit about all the extra weird features
that he was putting in there.
You know what I mean?
Like, I just wanted a very versatile digital envelope
wave shape based, you know what I mean?
That you can mutate in interesting ways.
And it seems like that's exactly what this is.
(dramatic music)
- How about you, Dave?
(laughing)
All I have is the graphic VCO from Erica Sintz.
We were playing with it earlier
before we started recording.
I'm stoked on everything so far.
And it looks like we're even going to be adding new stuff
on top of that.
It's a digital wave table oscillator
and it's got a bunch of different modes.
One is AB, where you morph between two wave shape.
The other one is a single wave table
and you sort of morph it.
And the last is this matrix where you set the boundaries
and it goes through all of the wave tables in it
and the X and Y controls,
the sort of shifting between the wave tables.
And so there's different effects you can apply.
Like FM, Overdrive, Crush.
There's a huge list of them.
And then the different snapshots.
So as you save a setting,
then there's a bank of these snapshots
and then you can just go through
and pick those as you need to.
Like Greg was asking,
it would be cool if there was a way to cycle through
the snapshots you've created.
But as of yet, there isn't.
- Be cool if you could morph between them.
- Yeah. - That would be awesome.
- That would be crazy.
- Yeah, more finger, just sequencing.
- Just sequencing between them.
- Just selection.
- Yeah, right now you've got to like go into that menu,
hit and select it and then open that menu again
and go back to it.
But like I said, it looks like they're adding new stuff to it.
There's like a like coming soon type
of like little boxes.
So it doesn't seem like they're done with it quite yet.
But what's theirs already amazing?
- Fuck how it sounds dude.
That thing looks fantastic.
- Yeah.
- That panel, the little stars and the comet.
- And the, I love the black intelligel, knobs and caps.
That's what I've done my whole system with.
So props to them for good knob choice right there.
- It's aesthetically very pleasing.
And there's in a oscilloscope that if you're so inclined
you can just sit and stare at for hours.
Everything visually about it is also.
- I mean it is a graphic PCOS.
- It should have graphics.
- It's gotta be eye catching.
- Yeah.
- They did a good job there.
Is there anything I'm forgetting?
- The sub oscillator.
- Oh the sub oscillator.
- That was pretty.
- Yeah. - That was a nice touch.
- It is a nice touch because there's two outs.
The first out is without the sub oscillator
in the second one you can then mix.
How much of the sub oscillator in the original signal
comes out of that and you can go all the way down
to just the sub oscillator but all the way back up
to just without it.
And there's a bunch of choices for the sub oscillator
like how much it's detuned.
And also which wave shape the sub oscillator is going to be.
And you got a couple of basic ones.
Triangle, sine wave, square wave, what you would expect.
But also it can be one of the wave tables.
Just you can just choose one of the wave tables
or it can actually just be a copy of the original signal
and then it's just detuned.
- It's kinda like the, like we were saying earlier,
like a better version of the orgyrown accumulator
in a lot of ways.
- Yeah.
- I like that module.
We both have them.
It always frustrated me that the tuning range
was so limited.
You know, it's kinda like,
I think the reason we're getting some of these things
is 'cause they're like frustrations
with some of these earlier modules that people have like said,
oh, this is a problem like and fixed it
whether it's their company or not.
- Again, before we started recording,
we were talking about, I had a Pittsburgh generator
for a really long time and I really loved it.
And then the noise engineering,
Lukelek replaced that for me.
It just does all of that and then a million times more.
Like it's that, like cranked up.
And the same thing with the graphic VCO is the Orgon cranked up.
It's, you know, it's addressing all of its deficiencies.
It does everything that I loved,
that module does and more evolving.
Evolving this.
- Yeah, it's got a nice, you know, visual display
for everything that you do on it.
That's pretty cool.
- And you're only about one step or move from everything.
There's a sort of main menu with eight selection.
Then you can go through that really quickly
and then you just go to one other screen.
It is not a huge dive.
- Yeah, it's not like a shape shifter,
which is kind of like the opposite.
- Yeah.
- That seems like really menu driven.
This seems like they did a really good job
with the UX on it.
- Yeah, totally great.
And I mean, there's a dedicated back button
for every one of them.
So you're going in, you hit the back button.
- That is what the shape shifter needed.
- Yeah.
Just a simple back button.
It would have helped a lot.
I've played with pretty much every wave table loss
that I've been able to get my hands on.
You know what I mean?
And it reminds me of a weird combination
of like Oregon cycle box and piston Honda.
You know what I mean?
It's like the XY that you can do on there and everything.
It's pretty slick.
- As of right now, I haven't made my own wave tables.
You know, basically, I only got this like a week ago.
So I'm still in like--
- What the fuck, dude?
- Once again, I have failed.
But even with just like the stuff that it comes with,
crazy ass sounds.
- Oh, so you just like presets now?
- I love presets now.
(laughing)
- You haven't hand drawn every wave manually.
- I did play with me.
- It's just sketch mode.
- It is straight up at the sketch.
Maybe with a little bit of practice,
I'd be able to do it faster,
but my first experiments was drawing it.
Drawing a wave shape was a little growing.
And I love tedious tasks.
And even I was crying.
(laughing)
- We saw that video with them recently.
- Oh, yeah, the aircocents.
It was a very nicely shot,
like them explaining where they are in Latvia,
like the city that they're in.
And their weird basement podcast thing.
- Yeah, that looks pretty cool.
I didn't know that they were doing that
until I saw the video and I was like,
"Oh, I'll check that out."
- Yeah, seriously.
- I would hang out with those people.
- Yeah, I remember seeing the dude with the Nohawk,
like demo and stuff.
I think that was at knob con or something.
- Yeah, yeah. - Or something,
I can't remember, but I was like,
"Yeah, these guys look cool."
And then like all the stuff they even put out lately,
I just, it's like, "Okay, yeah, these guys get it."
- Yeah.
(loud music)
- Also a Geiger counter.
- I loved the little, you know, format of the box,
but yeah, the yellow red color scheme is such an eyesore.
And I didn't, I was one of the first orders apparently
to ship out and I didn't know it at the time,
but there was a limited run,
very limited run of like a gray box.
Dark gray, yeah, and I was like, "Son of a bitch."
And by the time I found out,
it was too late for me to like change my order
and they were already sold out.
- That's awesome. - Yeah, that's awesome.
- That was really bummed.
I was like, I would have really enjoyed the limited edition,
but yeah.
- I just hate the color yellow.
- Yeah, I'm not a fan.
- And it's like a Pittsburgh color,
so it's like everywhere in this fucking city.
- This also, that makes it look like Metasonics.
- Yeah, we can rather like radioactive green or something.
- Yeah.
- You know, like one of the yellow,
which I always think of like Metasonics
or like fucking traffic sign, you know, like road signs.
I don't know why.
- Or McDonald's.
- Yeah, 'cause it's supposed to stimulate appetite
or just like the hunger.
- The colors in McDonald's were chosen for a reason.
- The hunger.
- It gives you hunger.
- Catch up mustard colors.
- Yeah.
- Condiments.
- I don't know. - I love condiments.
- Yeah, I'm gonna hunger now.
- We could all eat this pedal.
- Okay.
- There's probably almost no nutritional value.
And I'm just gonna break my teeth.
- Well, it is full of sonic goodness.
- Jesus.
- Oh, if you break your teeth, we can drink the blood.
(laughing)
- Now I do love the box.
It's pretty large improvement
over the original Geiger counters.
It's been a long time coming this version, you know what I mean?
It's been rumored and hyped up for a few years now,
but I suppose it was worth the wait.
It's got a bunch of new shit.
And just the quality overall,
I feel like the sound quality is pretty nice.
It goes higher up, it's not just eight bit anymore.
You got a higher sample rate, higher bit rate.
And just the wave bank itself is much larger.
I don't know if they did,
but it sounds like they did make improvements
over the preamp.
It just sounds a little cleaner.
And it reminds me of the same preamp
that's in the trash masters.
You know, and it's got a nice balance with all of it.
'Cause you have your white dry,
the level of the preset,
and then the master volume.
So you can get a nice balance with everything in there.
You can CV the tone now.
Yeah, what you couldn't do before.
That was something I actually emailed WMD
when I first bought the module like years back.
I said, I love tweaking this tone of on the modules.
Is there any way to CV the gain and tone?
You said at the time it wasn't possible.
Now it is on this boat.
So that's pretty sweet.
You can CV both, gain and tone, all that.
You get two assignable CV inputs, which is pretty cool.
I mean, I would rather this was a module,
but the fact that it's not,
and you can still CV it is pretty cool.
So what are all the other knobs on this?
There isn't really any new knobs,
aside from the master and the level and stuff like that.
But you can save presets now, which is nice.
Oh, that is cool.
You can also, there's a rand button.
You can just randomize a preset,
find something you'd like, save it.
You don't even really need to touch the knobs
if you don't want to.
You know what I mean?
Like if you had a preset and you wanted to load another one,
is it smooth or is it like cut out?
It's real smooth.
Okay, cool.
Got it preset, oh preset down.
Knobs here.
So I mean, it's still, you know,
stomp pedal format.
Yeah.
So if this was a module,
I think it would be nice to have CV control
over that randomized function.
And the presets, you know what I mean?
So you could have a bunch saved,
and then CV sweep through them or sequence them or whatever.
Maybe hit the random function with a gate
to just generate some new chaos.
Is random everything random?
I believe so.
Okay.
I'm limited to a certain things.
Ehh, it might be.
Like I don't think it'll,
I don't know if it would hit the gain in tone.
That's a very good question.
Or the wet and dry,
because that would be kind of, oh yeah it does.
It definitely hits everything.
'Cause you could see the LED indicators
for the tone change and the wet dry change, so yeah.
We could probably insert a sample right here.
Insert sample here.
Yeah.
(engine revving)
And while we're talking about the 301,
you said there's a new firmware, you just saw recently?
- Yeah, so he just got.
Yeah, it's got, so there are new sample types
where there's like a clocked player
that will time stretch.
And it'll even respect the slices that you have set up
and it'll time stretch those individually
when you send it like a group of slices.
So you can play that stuff just in at a clock
and it'll like able to in style be like,
okay, this is how long you wanted me to play it, right?
And then there's also the one that does not,
that will affect the pitch only.
So you can send like a loop in it,
it'll actually re-pitch it
so you don't get the time stretching effect.
He put another bunch of stuff in here,
but man, it's crazy how much he's adding to this platform.
- The Digitag doesn't do any of that.
- No looping.
And with the pedal loopers now, you can record like
perfect loops, put them in a buffer,
load them into that clock time stretch thing.
And it's just what you would expect it to be.
- It's interesting.
- It's nuts that he keeps like,
it's just honestly, I've had problems right now with Squarp
because my pyramid touch pads lifting,
they've delayed their release for the fourth month now.
- I don't buy it, man.
This is a one man shop running the 301,
building them all, supporting it all.
Somehow he has a clear roadmap,
some tile people know when the next units will be available,
he never misses his dates.
He just told everybody on the forum,
he's like, "I'm going on a bike trip for a month.
"Don't bother calling me or like emailing me."
He's like, "Cool, have fun, man."
I'm not gonna be expecting anything from you.
Whereas if you keep pushing a release,
like electron and Squarp,
it's like, "Eh, why am I fucking with you?"
Shit doesn't work.
- He added slicing stuff,
oh, he finally added like, sesteing loops.
So if you hold down, it'll play the sample,
and then you define a loop,
and then it'll loop through that part of it
until you let it go.
- Which actually the bitbox added,
and that was even more flexible.
- Yeah, it was even more flexible.
- The bitbox, they really took that to the next level.
But the slicing, like the spectral slicing,
I was like, "Why would you want that?"
And I'm like, "Oh, he had field recordings."
Like, slices on spectral energy instead of thresholds.
So you can have a noisy ass mic,
and it won't matter until you get to like,
whatever you're going for,
then it will slice it there.
I'm like, "Man, you're fucking smart."
Yeah, there are lots of cool granular stuff he's added.
Like the stretch one is actually a granular clock stretch too.
So you have some granular controls over it.
There's different noise types.
Like you can take a,
there's a velvet noise in there,
which I'd never heard of before.
- Yeah, right?
- I've never heard of that.
- But you can take that and you can pitch it down real far
and assign it to like slices.
Like I think that MLOGRADER is doing,
it's like true randomization.
But you can control that too.
So you can have like only an amount of that randomization
offset and attenuated to the range you're going for.
Yeah, and then you can have that point it to slices.
Like, it's crazy.
I think I told you guys this too.
You can take like a whole folder of samples,
be like, "Load this up and make it into a sliced up thing."
And it'll be like, "Doop, just take the starts and ends,
put the slice there so you can have all that stuff just on one
channel and then scan through it with CCs."
- Wow.
- Or CVs.
- CCs pizza?
- Yes.
- Oh, you can eat?
- CC DeVille from Poison.
- Mm-hmm.
(upbeat music)